The Joe Rogan.
Experience. What do you think about all this talk like Elizabeth,
Warren's talked about it and some other candidates have talked about as mother
politicians have talked about breaking up these big companies,
breaking up Facebook it's too big breakup, Google breakup, Twitter.
What do you think about that?
Well, um, I think we have to study what happened to standard oil.
What happened to standard oil? Um, standard oil. They, uh,
broke it up and it became, uh, Exxon Chevron,
Texaco. Uh,
I think BP don't quote me on that one. But.
Does anybody have brand loyalty to gas? Does anybody like dude,
I'm a Chevron man.
They create those, those cards, right? Those oh loyalty.
Cards. Oh, okay. Yeah. Yeah. That's how they create a loyalty program here.
It is the evolution of standard oil. Jamie pulled it up on the screen. Yeah,
there you go. Wow. So standard oil was too big. Yeah. Like, this place.
Right. We have to move it around a little bit in 1911 standard oil of Kentucky,
1911. They did it. Right.
So if you look at it, it's broken up in a, I think it says 34, right?
34 companies. Right. So you see on the left, right. And in as you go,
what do you see? You see a consolidation, don't you? Hmm. You see these emerges.
Yeah. So when you break up a monopoly,
you're not really breaking up with not monopoly.
What you're doing is you're creating a divide and conquer dynamic. So it's like,
okay, I'll let my brother control this one. My sister control that one.
My cousin controls this and you actually corner the market.
So breaking up would not believe it. Isn't exactly a good thing.
In that case. Yeah.
In that case. And I think we'll see the same thing with Google.
If we break up Google or what you're going to do is just have little
subsidiaries or little satellite things that will just control a certain
segment under a different name,
which would make it harder to track back to its source. So, you know,
when I say, you know, break up monopoly, I think that the establishments like,
yeah, come on, break me up, baby.
You think so? I don't think they want to lose any control.
I certainly don't think Facebook does.
It's not choosing to the Zuckerberg forever. Uh, right.
Aren't they trying to get rid of him, the board members like acid.
Day claim, but get that robot out.
Of here, let's lose. He drinks water. Right? He does look like.
A robot, but.
When he drank water in front of Congress, but isn't it.
Socialism that's socialism when you,
when the government comes in and tells you what you can do with your
cooperation. Yeah. That's socialism. So,
so what I feel is like the powers that be are pushing socialism, or like,
we can use this as an excuse to infiltrate corporations and, you know, blah,
blah, blah, blah, blah, and can start controlling this internet space.
So the internet space is now common.
I'm of the opinion though,
that if we believe in freedom of speech and you create something that's so big
that it's essentially a town square,
which is what I think these platforms are you. If you ban people,
especially if you ban people for, like learn to code,
like things that don't make any sense.
There's people that are getting banned for some pretty ridiculous ideas. Yeah.
That as soon as you start doing something like that,
you are going against the fundamental ideas.
This country is founded on absolute freedom of speech.
I think it's incredibly important that if you have someone saying something
that you think is wrong or is, is hurtful,
there should be an avenue where people can examine that and talk about it and
combat it with good speech with speech. That makes sense.
Yeah. Well, you know, a couple of years ago, last year, I forget. No,
it was about a couple of years ago. Um, I was lambasted for, uh,
defending white nationalists. I mean, you know,
when they first got deep platform,
some of them got deep platform were just white nationalist period. I'm like,
well, if this is how these people feel, let's listen to them,
let's listen to their gripes. What are they mad about? Right.
And then people are like, oh, how could you, these people are racist.
And I'm like, I don't care if they're racist. Like that doesn't affect me.
Right? Like I'm not asking them for a job. So they can't be racist towards me.
You know what I mean? But, um, when you have these,
these groups that people call fringe,
I feel like the people that are fringe are the test for
freedom of speech. It's not the people in the middle.
It's the fringe groups on the outside. If they don't have freedom of speech,
everybody in the middle of the group. So I stood up and I was like, yo,
let these dudes talk, like, stop doing that. Like, like, you know,
I don't care if they're racist or whatever people call me names,
but then now you see it coming down and we lost, you know, Louis Farrakhan,
he got D platform. He lost his verification, you know? And it's like, he's like.
Was there anything specifically that he said that allowed him to do that?
Or did they just make a sweeping cause they got rid of my, well,
they got rid of Gavin McInnes.
They got rid of a bunch of people that were on Instagram and Facebook that they
hadn't de platformed.
But it didn't seem like there was anything that happened that caused them to do
that.
It seemed like they just made some sort of a decision that I think was probably
based on preparing for the 20, 20 elections. Absolutely.
So what I think what happened was, uh, the, uh, uh,
the banning of Louis Farrakhan, it was just a theory, but they were like,
all right, if we ban these conservatives,
the conservative crowd is going to just go ape. Right.
But if we throw them Louis Farrakhan,
it'll kind of settle things down a little bit. Cause it'll look like were.
Fair. I think.
You're exactly right. Yeah. So I'm like, so that's what they did. And like, oh,
let's throw them in there and you know, smooth things over.
That's exactly what I thought when I saw it. Yeah. I was like this seamless,
weird.
Yeah. Yeah. It's like, they have to justify.
Like, no, we got rid of him too, you know? Yeah. Yeah.
It's a, it's a strange time because there's,
even though there is gab and there's mines and there's is a couple other
startups that are trying to make their way into the Jordan Peterson one.
And there's nothing that really stands out. And once someone starts,
once a giant group of people starts using something, unless it's like, what's,
what's hilarious is when they, one of them vanish like MySpace,
how badly did they match my space? Because MySpace had it all.
They had everybody and it just died and still around.
But now it's like some French music publishing platform. It's very weird.
You know, it still exists.
But what Twitter is right now and what Facebook is right now and what
Instagram is right now, it seems like there's no real competitors per se,
specifically YouTube. There's no real competitors.
Because when you know, I don't wanna, you know,
Dogpile on no minds or gab or anything,
but the problem is when you build a social network and this is why I will not
build a social network, at least not in the next 10 years,
you have to understand that you can't build a social network that mimics
another one has to break. It has to be different.
That's why snap is still here. Right? Snap is inside a certain demographic.
That's my daughters, you know, generation, right.
That's them right there on snap. So when you build these things,
you really have to sit down and say like, you know, what's the,
what are we going to focus on? Like with mine's right? You post videos,
you post photos. And then how do the photos appear? Right?
So when I look at mine's mine's is my Instagram. When you,
when you look at mines on mobile, that the font's really small. So it's like,
I can't read this. So I'm just going to use this for photos.
When I put the photos, it pops up, right?
So it's like his mind's going to go that route.
Are they going to go the video route? Are they going to go the tweet route?
You got to pick one and then grow from there. If you look at Twitter, Twitter,
DiNapoli's Fitch features in the beginning, you just had tweaked.
I'd say there was no threads. There's none of that.
So you have to start at your core, but when you,
the other problem they do is they try to build these social networks, um,
completely robust, right? With all the bells and whistles of the giants.
NaPro you gotta start small and slim and then let your audience tell you what
the next feature is. So what would.
You, if you were going to start one up, what would it be?
Or do you know information? No, it's not.
I don't want to give it out and information. I think information should be free,
but you know, I, I hate,
I hate the idea that people want to create social networks. I'm like,
they exist.
Let's use the ones that exist and let's just figure out how to make them better.
Right.
When you do that,
then those have so much power because they can dictate who's on and who's not
on.
Right. So what you do is when you have something like a Twitter,
you use your Twitter to congregate your minds. Right. But then you're,
you know, you're your Bill's of the world. You're,
you're Andrew Toby's of the world have to listen to the community and,
and then cure, rate their product around what the community needs. Right.
Andrew Toba figured out what the dissenter, when he found out, oh,
the internet is blocking comments. So he created, you know,
you can comment on anywhere on the internet and then Google Chrome smashed.
Right. I said, get that out of here.
Yeah. Why did they do that? What was the justification for getting rid of that?
They want a sensor. They didn't want a sensor.
Inflammation. Is that what they want to do?
Or they want to keep a competitor from using their platform and profiting off of
it. That's how I looked at it.
I looked at it from a marketing or a business perspective.
I ain't worried about his name because.
It could have been, but if it becomes huge, I mean,
anything can become huge if it's useful. Yeah.
It seemed useful to me that they were going to be able to comment on anything.
You'll have like a little link. And if you use gab,
you can comment on anything that comes up. Yeah.
Yeah. You can look at it like that. I don't, I feel like, you know, they,
their budgets is so huge. They, they, you know,
their cash reserves are so huge that they're not worried about competition at
all. You know, what they're worried about is, uh,
controlling thought and,
and that's their primary goal control thought, right.
For the betterment of the ruling class. And that's, to me, that's,
that's the end all be all of it all. Um, but you, uh,
these, these, you know, the, these, these people that create tech products,
like when we create Coinbase app, or for example, my app, Jeff AtoZ,
Jeff it's eyes, do you only do one thing on different ties?
The only thing you can do is, uh,
save a video or ju or Jif from Twitter.
I always call it GIF.
Is it Jeff?
I think it's.
I think it's CIF. I've never, I don't think I ever hear anybody say it could.
Be correct.
That'd be correct. Do you know what you call it? Jamie? I call it a GIF. GIF.
GIF. GIF is peanut butter. Right?
Jeff has peanut butter, but our app does one thing.
Right. And people love it.
When I first came on as a co-founder, this app did more than that.
And when it did more than that, it didn't do as well as it does. Now,
what it used to do, uh, we had incentives, uh, to, uh,
share the app. You could edit G uh, gifts. Uh, you could,
um, put text on them, um, uh,
crop them all types of like, it had an editor in there. So I was like, yo,
take this editor, toss it out. Uh, oh, we had a keyboard. Um, you know,
it still has a keyboard, but I was like,
took some of the functionalities and I just started taking stuff out and just
like, get this out of here, get this out. I could definitely slim it down.
Right. As soon as we slimmed it down, we changed gave it a new face. Boom,
our revenue.
Quadruple. Once again, tell people.
Give it to us, give it to us.
Jamie's got it.
Yeah. G I F I T.
I Z the ultimate Twitter gift downloader. Yeah.
Yeah. And this is this thing's about to be super huge. Uh,
we have a gallery coming soon and that's going to be awesome.
I'm going to be perfectly curated. Um,
not speak to my partner Simone this morning about that.
One of the fun things about Twitter, when someone says something stupid,
and then you look at all the gifts underneath it, all names and gifts.
So we empower people like black Twitter is on our app.
So whenever there's a new video out, you know,
something funny happens and using it as a reaction. So we on iOS,
there's no way to save it. Now you can with our app,
but our app only does one thing and everybody's LA love it. Right?
That's that's the core of the business.
What's the core of minds. What's the core of gap.
What's the core feature to anybody? No, there is not a core feature.
Yeah. I wouldn't,
I would say just something as an alternative to traditional media.
You see what I'm saying?
Yeah. So there is no uniqueness where there is no uniqueness. You can't compete.
You have to first create uniqueness, um, or, or fill a need.
There. There's no need for me to be on these other platforms.
Well,
the problem is when you get on those other platforms and there's no one there,
let me go back to.
The real quick. Yeah. And that's why I say, when you build a social network,
the, before you build a network, you have, I mean,
before you build the platform, you have to build the network.
Mm what's interesting. If you go back to like 2003, when MySpace was king,
and then you imagine what the world would be like 16 years later,
no one would have saw this coming.
No one would have saw all these social media platforms and that it's
used as a way of breaking news now. I mean,
especially in places that don't have real objective news.
So if you're in some country,
that's some war torn country in some horrible is going down.
You see the news breaking on Twitter before anywhere. Oh yeah.
Really interesting. Oh yeah.
Tell people like screw Facebook and Instagram and news breaks on, on Twitter.
You know, by the time, you know,
by the time I show all my friend of my friend shows me a video, I'm like,
I saw it on Twitter like two weeks ago, bro.
Cause he's on Facebook or he's on Instagram. Right. So it was like,
how do you market a product or market yourself when you're two weeks behind.
Um, two weeks behind on Instagram though. I get a lot of on Instagram too. Like.
Rogan. Yeah.
Yeah.
So it's a bit different, you know,
and I guess it depends on who you're surrounded by. Right?
So when we talk about a network, it's like, you know, who are the people?
Who are you following? Who's who you interacting with? But I get like, mom,
that's not true. I was going to say, I get like most of the up videos of news,
stories of bad things that are happening in the news, come to me on Instagram.
But I think send it to you. Yeah. But I think it's even,
I think it's even with Instagram and Twitter sending me things.
Well, you did well when you're Joe Rogan, even ever your Hotep, Jesus,
like a people will say to me, how do you know so much? I'm like, yo,
my followers, like yeah. Books and links and stuff like that.
Like they're just sending it to me. Um, you know,
sometimes I ask them sometimes I don't, but they're volunteering information.
Um, so when you're in that position, you know, you can afford it. But when,
so the key to marketing is this, you know, you, your four P's of marketing,
but the key to marketing is relevance.
If what you're talking about is irrelevant, nobody's paying attention to you,
right? Yeah.
So the only thing that makes somebody platforms relevant is the juxtaposition
to the big tech giants. You remove the tech giants. Are you still relevant?
What makes you relevant? Right.
Right, right. That's where a lot of people that do content, whether they're, um,
you know, podcasters or whatever,
they probably should be thinking about developing an email list and putting
things on the website,
having something available independently of these big platforms.
I've been thinking about that a lot lately doing what but something that
independent of these big platforms where like, if, I mean,
you see all these people that have gotten deep platforms. Yeah.
And I don't think I'm at the risk of that,
but if I didn't think these people were just a few years ago as the climate
shifts and people get more and more radical with this idea of de platforming,
I think it becomes like a game of like shooting ducks.
People get excited about it. They like taking people out,
whether it makes sense or not.